# Connecting AiiDA to the cluster
There are many options as to how AiiDA can be run. In the following we will run AiiDA from our cloud9 instance using a docker container. You could just as well install AiiDA natively in the same VM (e.g. using [this](https://galaxy.ansible.com/marvel-nccr/aiida) ansible) or run from your local machine.

## 2.1. Downloading and configuring the AiiDA container
Before we start connecting AiiDA with our HPC we need to setup and configure the container from which we will be running AiiDA. Depending on your configuration, your volume may be too small to download the container. See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting/troubleshooting.md) to resolve this.

To start:
1. Pull the docker container: `docker pull aiidateam/aiida-core:latest`  
2. Create a volume to associate with the container: `docker volume create aiida-data`
3. Launch to container: `docker run -d --name aiida-container --mount source=aiida-data,target=/tmp/data aiidateam/aiida-core:latest`
4. Enter into the container: `docker exec -it --user aiida aiida-container /bin/bash`

We have now a container running AiiDA. To verify that everything works as it should you can run `verdi status` (it takes about a minute for everything to boot). The aiida user currently has very few privileges making file handling challenging. 

To change this:
1. Exit the container
2. Reenter as root: `docker exec -it --user root aiida-container /bin/bash`
3. Change the root password: `passwd`
4. Give the AiiDA user ownership to `/tmp` (or the directory where your volume is located): `chown -R aiida /tmp`
5. Exit and reenter as aiida
6. Verify everything still works: `verdi status`

Our container is now ready to connect to the HPC cluster.

## 2.2. Connecting to the HPC 
We will now connect from the container to the HPC cluster using ssh. In this section it helps to have two terminals open. One for the container and one for the standard cloud9 instance. 

1. Copy the rsa key over to the container. 
2. Change it's permissions: `chmod 600 <key>`
3. Connect to the cluster again: `ssh ec2-user@<Master public ip> -i <path to key>`

Now we can connect to our HPC cluster from the terminal. The next step is to connect AiiDA to the cluster.

## 2.3 Connecting AiiDA to the HPC 
AiiDA also requires a key to connect to the cluster. However with the current permissions AiiDA can't access our key and if we change the permissions such that AiiDA can access the key we can't use ssh anymore to connect to our cluster due to the permissions being to open. Thus I advice to create a copy of the key and change it's permissions to e.g. `666` and use this key in the following section.

1. Clone the three files (`computer-setup.yaml`, `computer-config.yaml` and `add.yaml`) in the folder associated with this section into `/home/aiida/setup/`
2. Add your Master public ip to `computer-setup.yaml`
3. Setup up the computer: `verdi computer setup --config computer-setup.yaml`
4. Edit `computer-config.yaml` to reflect the correct path to the key with open permissions
5. Configure the the computer: `verdi computer configure --config computer-setup.yaml`
6. Choose the default (hit enter) for all other options
7. Run: `verdi computer list`

You should now see `hpc` in your computer list.

If so, Congratulations!

You have now setup and configured AiiDA to interface with the HPC. Next up is running a job on the HPC through AiiDA.

## 2.4 Running a job through AiiDA on the HPC
